Law school, as almost the only way to prepare for membership in the legal profession, plays an important role in the hierarchy of the legal profession. In my opinion, among all the practical functions, the main function of law school is to maintain the stable of the hierarchy of the legal profession and the justice system. It goes in the following three ways.

First, professional training. There are contracts, torts, property, criminal law, civil procedure in the traditional first-year program which can be mainly described as the ground rules for late 19th century laissez-faire capitalism. In the further studying, students will learn the administrative structure of modern country, legal philosophy, legal history, legal process and so on. With the development of social, some new lessons like environmental law, welfare rights and consumer protection are also offered. As future lawyers, students must have a good command of professional knowledge.

Second, critical thinking. Law teachers usually use the case method or the Socratic method. The legal principles which actually taught to students were divorced from the “grubby world of practice”. It contributes to the impairment of the ability to care about other people, a professional unemotionalism and cynicism on part of law students. Obviously, this process of learning “how to think like a lawyer” has an adverse impact both on the students and the quality of future lawyering. But every coin has two sides. It’s very important for a lawyer to make a rational decision when facing complex case. Meanwhile, the professional unemotionalism also actually keeps a lawyer from emotional affection. 

Last, as a gate-keeper for the entry to the legal profession. Law schools not only produce lawyers within the profession but also staff the law schools. The full-time faculty of law schools “have a virtual monopoly on who will and will not enter the legal profession” and “on the power to mold future generations”. Law schools actually responsible for the quality of the legal profession.

In a country with an adequate legal system, it’s the legal profession that plays an extremely important role; hence the primary function of law schools is maintaining the stable of the hierarchy of the legal profession and the justice system.
